all right we have to take you now to the
security Council let's listen into what
the Secretary General is saying have
devastating
consequences we anticipate that it would
result in a complete breakdown of public
order and increased pressure for Mass
displacement into
Egypt I fear the consequences could be
devastating for the security of the
entire
region we have already seen the
spillover in the occupied West Bank
Lebanon Syria Iraq and
Yemen there is clearly my view a serious
risk of aggravating existing threats to
the maintenance of International Peace
and
security the risk of collapse of the
humanitarian system is fundamentally
linked with a complete lack of Safety
and Security for our staff in Gaza and
with the nature and intensity of
military operations which are severely
limiting access to people in desperate
need the threat to the Safety and
Security of United Nations staff in Gaza
is
unprecedented more than 130 of my
colleagues have already been killed many
with their
families this is the largest single loss
of life in the history of our
organization some of our staff take
their children children to work so they
know they will live or die
together colleagues have shared
artbreaking messages from staff members
pleading for
help the end Secretary General of the
Department of Safety and Security has
advised me that all possible means of
mitigating the risk to stuff within Gaza
short of evacuation are closed off
because of the way this conflict has
evolved I cannot emphasize strongly
enough that the UN is totally committed
to stay and deliver for the people of
Gaza and I pay tribute to the heroic
humanitarian Aid workers who remain
committed to their work despite the
enormous dangers to their health and
their
lives but the situation is simply
becoming
untenable the council called in
resolution
272 and I quote for the scaling up of
the provision of such supplies to meet
humanitarian needs of the civilian
population especially children end quote
I deeply regret to inform the council
that under current conditions on the
ground the Fulfillment of this mandate
has become
impossible the conditions for the
effective delivery of humanitarian Aid
no longer
exist the crossing point at Rafa was not
designed for hundreds of trucks and is a
major
bottleneck but even if sufficient
supplies were permitted into Gaza
intense bombardment and hostilities
Israeli restrictions on movement fuel
shortages and interrupted
Communications make it impossible for un
agencies and their Partners to reach
most of the people in
need between 3 and 5 December the two
days preceding my letter the UN could
only distribute Aid in one of Gaza five
governorates Rafa elsewhere excess was
impossible people are desperate fearful
and angry and in some cases they have
expressed their anger towards our own
staff Mr
president all this takes place amid a
spiraling humanitarian
nightmare first there is no effective
protection of
civilians more than 177,000 Palestinians
have reportedly been killed since the
start of Israel's military
operations this includes more than 4,000
women and 7,000
children tens of thousands are reported
to have been injured and many are
missing presumably and at the rubble and
all these numbers are increasing by the
day attacks from Air Land and Sea are
intense continuous and
widespread so far they have reportedly
hit 339 education facilities 26
hospitals 56 Healthcare facilities 88
mosques and three
churches over 60% of gaza's housing has
reportedly been destroyed or damaged
some 300,000 houses and
apartments some 85% of the population
have been forced from their
homes the people of Gaza are being told
to move like human pinballs ricochetting
between ever smaller sers of the sace
without any of the basics for survival
but nowhere in Gaza is
safe at least 88 un shelters have been
hit killing over 270 people and injuring
over
900 conditions in shelters are
overcrowded and
unsanitary people nurse open wounds
hundreds of people stand in line for
hours to use one shower or
toilets families who have lost
everything sleep on bare concrete floors
wearing clothes they have not changed
for two
months tens of thousands of Palestinian
Ians arrived in Rafa in recent days
overwhelming shelters
there many displaced families including
children older people pregnant women and
people with disabilities are sleeping in
streets and public spaces across the
city Mr
President second gazans are running out
of
food according to the world food program
there is a serious risk of starvation
and
famine in Northern Gaza 19 7% of
households are not eating enough in the
South the figure among displaced people
is
83% all of the people of the north and
more than one third of displaced people
in the South are simply
starving wfp's Zone food stocks are
running out in the North Nine out of 10
people have spend at least one full day
and night without food the last
functioning floor meal in Gaza was
destroyed on 15
November wfp has provided food and cash
assistance to hundreds of thousands of
people across Gaza since the Crisis
began and is ready to scale up its
operations however that would require
effective access to all people in need
and at least 40 trucks of Food Supplies
every day many times the current
level Mr
President third Gaza L system is
collapsing
while needs are
escalating at least 286 else workers
have been
killed hospitals have suffered heavy
bombardment just 14 out of 36 are still
functioning of these three are providing
basic first head while the others are
delivering partial
Services the European Gaza Hospital one
of the two main hospitals in southern
Gaza has 370 beds it is is currently
housing 1,000 patients and an estimated
70,000 people seeking
shelter there are critical shortages of
drugs blood prodcts and medical
supplies fuel to run the hospitals is
severely
ration many patients are being treated
on the floor and without
anesthetics as patients with
life-threatening injuries continue to
arrive WS are overflowing and and stuff
are
overwhelmed at the same time the
unsanitary conditions in shelters and
severe shortages of food and water are
leading to increases in respiratory
infections scabies JIS and
diarrhea everything I just
described represents an unprecedented
situation that led to my unprecedented
decision to invoke article
99 urging the members of the security
Council to press to avert the
humanitarian catastrophe and the
appealing for a humanitarian ceasefire
to be
declared Mr President we are all aware
that Israel began its military
operations in response to the brutal
Terror attacks Unleashed by Hamas and
other Palestinian armed groups on 7
October I unreservedly condemn those
attacks and I'm appalled by the reports
of sexual
violence there is no possible
justification for deliberately killing
some 100,000 some 1,200 people including
30 stre children injuring thousands more
and taking hundreds of
hostages some 130 hostages are still
held captive and I call for their
immediate and unconditional release as
well as their Humane treatment and
visits from the International Community
of the Red Cross until they are
feed at the same time the brutality
perpetrated by amas can never justify
the collective punishment of the
Palestinian
people and while indiscriminate rocket
Fire by amas into Israel and the use of
civilians as human Shields are in
contention with the laws of war such
conduct does not absolve Israel on its
own
violations International humanitarian
law includes the duty to protect
civilians and to comply with the
principles of Distinction proportion ity
and
precaution the laws of war also demand
that civilians essential needs must be
met including by facilitating the
unimpeded delivery of humanitarian
relief International humanitarian law
cannot be applied
selectively it is binding on all parties
equally at all times and the obligation
to observe it does not depend on
reciprocity Mr
President the people of Gaza are looking
into the abyss the International
Community must do everything possible to
end their
ordeal I urge the council to spare no
effort to push for an immediate
humanitarian cire for the protection of
civilians and for the Urgent delivery of
life-saving
AIDS while we deal with the current
crisis we cannot lose sight of the only
viable possibility for a peaceful future
a two-state solution on the basis of
United Nations resolution ions and
international law with Israel and
Palestine living side by side in peace
and
security this is vital for Israelis
Palestinians and for the International
Peace and
security the eyes of the world and the
eyes of History are watching it's time
to act and I thank
you for his
briefing